# Configuring a Network Device to Support Ansible

After configuring your home networks so that you can ping each home lab networking device from your desktop OS, next you configure the devices to support Ansible. This section describes the requirements for those networking devices and how to configure them for SSHv2 to work with Ansible.

## Networking Devices that Support Ansible

Devices that run IOS, IOS XE, IOS XR, and NX-OS all support Ansible since Ansible does not require an agent on the device, and connects using SSHv2, using CLI commands to manage each device. And several devies go beyond SSH configuration, supporting NETCONF or NXAPI configuration using Ansible. Long story short, Ansible supports many IOS devices.

For more perspective on the OS support, browse through the [Ansible documentation for the various networking modules](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/list_of_network_modules.html). You see modules supporting operating systems from various vendors. In Cisco’s case, make sure to search the module list for these literal terms:

-   IOS (which applies to IOS and IOS XE)
-   IOSXR
-   NXOS

There are practical limitations which mean you should run the more recent OS images, whatever the platform. To see why, dig into the details of modules listed in the [Ansible documentation pages for networking modules](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/list_of_network_modules.html), and look for the status of the module. There, you see info about the OS versions which the module has been tested against. For instance, the `ios_facts` module tests for IOS 15.6 have status of “preview”, meaning there are no guarantees of backwards compatibility. So, from a practical view, you want physical or virtual devices with relatively recent OS versions in your home lab to ensure you can use Ansible modules.

As a result, you have some choices for your home lab. First, try Ansible with whatever devices and OS levels you have available – you may get far with what you have! Adding Ansible to your home lab computer costs only time, and using devices you already have in your lab keeps monetary costs down.

Next, look into the [Cisco CSR product](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/products/routers/cloud-services-router-1000v-series/index.html?dtid=osscdc000283), which is what DevNet uses in the always-on NETCONF/YANG and RESTCONF on IOS XE sandbox used in this lab. You could purchase a basic low-throughput license, and run it in your home lab. You can also run one or more CSR instances within a cloud service, and pay for the CSR licenses by the hour, as you can see with [this price chart](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/B00EV8VXG2) from Amazon Web Services. Also, Cisco sometimes runs 60-day free trials for the CSR, which works well for labs.

Of course, Cisco’s [VIRL Personal Edition](https://learningnetworkstore.cisco.com/virtual-internet-routing-lab-virl/cisco-personal-edition-pe-20-nodes-virl-20) (VIRL PE) provides a great option as well. You can run the same CSR software within VIRL, and NX-OS, and IOS XR. As always with VIRL, these is some cost in mind: the annual license for VIRL itself ($200/year so far), plus you will likely need to run it on a separate server than your desktop or laptop, so you will have some expense to set up a server. But VIRL can be a great tool for many home labs.

## Configuring SSH on IOS and IOS XE

To support Ansible, just enable SSH on the device. Also, to support Ansible, the device must support SSH Version 2. Also, the user must be placed in privilege level 15 once logged in (that is, IOS puts the user in enable mode). To meet those requirements, when using local usernames:

-   The **username** command must include parameters of **privilege 15**, which will place the user into enable mode upon login
-   The SSH server defaults to support both versions 1 and 2, but to meet the requirement, use either the **ip ssh version** command (to support both versions 1 and 2) or the **ip ssh version 2** command.

The following configuration shows an example configuration with all the necessary features for SSHv2.

```
username wendell privilege 15 secret odom

! Enable SSH inbound only, and use of the local usernames
line vty 0 15
 login local
 transport input ssh

! Need hostname and domain name for key generation to work
hostname CSR1
ip domain-name example.com

! Create key, and enable SSH Version 2 only
crypto key generate rsa modulus 1024
ip ssh version 2
```


## Testing SSH to Your Network Device

To test SSH on your lab devices, you can use the same SSH app or command line client used early in this Learning Lab. Or, once configured from the CLI of the device, you could test from the device’s CLI, using the IOS **ssh** command. For example, use this next command, which uses SSHv2, defaults to use TCP port 22, username DevNet, to the networking device with address 10.1.1.1:

**ssh -v 2 -l DevNet 10.1.1.1**

If you see a prompt for the password, and can login with the defined password, then you have confirmed that SSH has been configured correctly.
