# A Bit More about Python Commands

The commands listed for the steps in this lab should work well on your computer, assuming you plan to use just one version of Python 2.7 and one version of Python 3.x on your computer. However, Python includes more commands, and more command parameters, and you will likely see those in other DevNet Learning Labs and other web sites and books. This last page mentions a few facts about some of the other commands, with some references for more reading.

## The Windows py Command Versus the python Command

First, this lab uses a Python for Windows feature called the Python Launcher because this lab asks you to start Python on Windows using the **py** command. The [Python Launcher](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0397/) provides one command – the **py** command – that applies rules so that the command can choose the correct instance of Python to execute on that Windows machine, among all the installed instances. The Python Launcher is designed to help solve the problem of the OS deciding which Python to use when multiple versions are installed.

One obvious way to use the Windows Python Launcher is to use the **-2** and **-3** options on the **py** command. These options execute the default Python version 2 or version 3 interpreter on that OS, respectively. So, if you install only one version of Python 2.7, just remember to use the **py -2** **...** command. Likewise, to start that one Python 3.x version that is installed, just use the **py -3** **...** command. Simple enough.

At the same time, you could still use the **python** command on Windows. The Python installation process installs an executable named **python**. Interestingly, the **python** command on Windows will likely execute the version of Python that was most recently installed. So, what version of Python will you run if you use the **python** command? You can always just type the **python** command, and look at the version displayed as the interactive interpreter session begins, to decide what version of Python you are running with that command. Or use the **python –V** command to list the version.

Of course, there is more to know beyond these basics – for more information, check out [this doc page about how to install and use Python on Windows](https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html).

## Other Linux and Mac Python Commands

On Linux and Mac, if you again stick with the approach of one Python 2.7 version, and one Python 3.x version, just keep using the **python** and **python3** commands used throughout this lab. But of course, there are more options!

As one example, Python on Linux and OS X include an executable for each major release. That is, there is a **python2.7** command, **python3.5** command, **python3.6** command, and so on. So, if you wanted to install one release of Python 3.5, and one release of Python 3.6, on the same Linux or Mac host, you could call each easily with the **python3.5** and **python3.6** commands.

## Virtual Environments

If you are thinking that this whole install-multiple-versions-of-Python thing is a mess, and wonder if it is worth the effort, take heart. Let me close with two suggestions.

First, if you are just getting started with Python, then install one version, either 2.7 or 3.6, and get some experience. Let your learning process over time dictate when you add the other major version, and stick with that pair of versions. In other words, keep it simple.

Second, learn about and use virtual environments, even from the first days of using Python. Python virtual environments let you easily set up and re-use a Python environment. No matter how many Python releases you install over time, that virtual environment will always use the specific Python version/release that you decide when you create the virtual environment. Plus, setup is easy (one command), and using the virtual environment each time is easy (one command). And when using a virtual environment, just use the python command – it will run that one version/release of Python defined that that virtual environment, with no worries about which of the many Python versions on your system that it is using.

Of course, we have more info about virtual environments! The next lab in this DevNet Learning Module, “Home Lab: Python Libraries (PIP) and Virtual Environments”, works through the details.
