# Installation: DNS, NTP, Usernames
This installation-focused page in this Learning Lab mentions a few small items to speed you along with the installation process: DNS, NTP, and usernames/passwords.

## DNS Server
APIC-EM uses DNS for a few functions, mainly for APIC-EM Telemetry (reporting to Cisco how we use APIC-EM) and make-a-wish (which is how we tell Cisco our thoughts about APIC-EM directly from the APIC-EM GUI). For those features, APIC-EM resolves hostnames for Cisco servers in the Internet.

The APIC-EM installation process asks you for a list of DNS servers. You have several options, including:
- The same DNS servers referenced by your Internet-facing router
- The public IP addresses used by Cisco’s OpenDNS service (208.67.220.220 and 208.67.222.222)
- Your local lab’s DNS server, if it references some authoritative DNS in the Internet

If you do use the DNS server you have in your home lab, make sure that DNS server refers to DNS servers in the Internet so that name resolution for domain names at cisco.com work.

## NTP Server
Like many application services, APIC-EM needs to synchronize time with NTP. In fact, the more and more you run different VMs in your lab, the more likely you will want to add an NTP server into your home lab.
For APIC-EM, you basically have two choices:
- Synchronize with the NTP server in your home lab
- Synchronize with some NTP server in the Internet, like pool.ntp.org.

## Usernames/Passwords Set at Installation
The installation wizard will ask you about two usernames which default to:
- grapevine
- admin

You can change the usernames and set the passwords to any value to like. For your home lab, just use the default names. Most typically, you use the admin username to log in to the APIC-EM GUI and as part of your API calls to generate the security tokens needed for other API calls. You use the grapevine user when doing APIC-EM maintenance tasks, like running the **config_wizard** command to change some installation-time choices. Just make sure to record those changes.


## Exercise: Complete Your Installation Documentation
Complete your plans for how to answer questions at installation by completing this table:

Feature|Value     
-------|----------------
DNS Server IP address(es)|
NTP server(s)|
Admin username/password|
Grapevine username/password|
