# PIP Exercises

Next, take a few minutes to experiment with installing and working with Python packages installed with PIP. These exercises have two main goals:

-   To help you better understand PIP
-   To help you understand how to work with PIP with both Python versions available on your computer.

Note that the exercises at this step assume you chose to install both Python 2.7 and 3.x. If not, just do the exercise on the Python version that you installed.

## Exercise: List the Python Library Path

This DevNet Learning Lab described how each Python version uses a separate Python Library Path: the list of directories Python searches when it sees an **import** statement. Compare the Python Library Path in both versions of Python by using a simple program, as follows:

1.  Open two commands shells (existing or new), one of the left, one on the right.
2.  Stop any existing interactive Python sessions using the **exit()** statement.
3.  Start a new Python 2 session in the command shell on the left, and a new Python 3 session on the right.
4.  Copy/paste the statements in the following program into each Python interpreter. (You may need to press enter again after the paste to execute the last of the pasted statements.) The program lists the directories in the Python Path.
5.  Do not close the two command prompts/shells.
```python
print("Python Path per sys module:")
import sys
for path in sys.path:
print(path)
```

In particular, look for the directory that includes “site-packages” (usually at the end of the list), and see that they are different directories for Python 2.7 and 3.x.

## Exercise: Attempt to Import the Requests Module

Next, work to make the requests module importable in both Python 2.7 and 3.x programs. The Python [Requests](http://python-requests.org/) module, as an optional module, must be installed with PIP (or manually) before the Python **import requests** statement would work. (If you have completed any of the DevNet Learning Labs about APIs and APIC-EM, or the [Coding 101 REST Basics lab](https://learninglabs.cisco.com/tracks/apic-em-prog/programming-found/coding-101-rest-basics-ga), you will see probably already have installed the requests module.)

In this exercise, follow these steps to discover if you have already installed the requests module by attempting to import it.

(Note: As a reminder on Linux/Mac, the first **pip** command within a command shell often requires that the command be prefaced with **sudo**.)

1.  Use the same two command prompt windows/shells.
2.  Stop any existing interactive Python sessions using the **exit()** statement.
3.  On the left, use PIP for Python 2.7 to list details about the requests module if it is installed, as follows:

    - Use the **pip list** command (Linux/Mac: **python -m pip list** or Windows: **py -2 pip list**) to list all installed packages
    - Use the **pip show requests** command (Linux/Mac: **python -m pip show requests** or Windows: **py -2 pip show requests**) to list details about requests if it is installed.
4.  On the right, do the same for Python 3.x, to list the installed packages, and to list details about the requests module if it is installed, as follows:

    - Use the **pip list** command (Linux/Mac: **python3 -m pip list** or Windows: **py -3 pip list**) to list all installed packages
    - Use the **pip show requests** command (Linux/Mac: **python3 -m pip show requests** or Windows: **py -3 pip show requests**) to list details about requests if it is installed.
5.  Attempt to install the requests module with PIP, for both Python 2.7 and 3.x. (If already installed, PIP should list a message telling you it was already installed.) To do so:

    - In the left-side window, use the **pip install requests** command (Linux/Mac: **python -m pip install requests** or Windows: **py -2 pip install requests**).
    - In the right-side window, use the **pip install requests** command (Linux/Mac: **python3 -m pip install requests** or Windows: **py -3 pip install requests**).
6.  Start a new interactive Python interpreter session in each window: Python 2.7 on the left, Python 3.6 on the right.
7.  From both windows, try to import the requests module using the **import requests** statement from the interpreter. Did it work? (It should, assuming the **pip install requests** command worked.)

## Exercise: Showing the Differences in Library Path

Finally, just to show the differences in how PIP for Python 2.7 does not install files for Python 3.x, and vice versa, this final exercise asks you to install a package for Python 2.7, and not for 3.x. To show that, the next exercise uses a Python package you should not already have installed: PycURL. (If you have already installed PycURL, these steps will not match what you see on your system; if so, try these: PyYAML, TelnetLib, Paramiko, or Netmiko.)

1.  From both windows, which should still be running interactive Python sessions, use the **exit()** command to stop the interactive Python session.
2.  Use the **pip list pycurl** command to confirm that the PycURL package is not installed for either Python 2.7 nor 3.x. Note that if the **pip list** command lists no output, the package is not installed:

    - On the left-side Python 2.7 window, check for a Python 2.7 installation of PycURL: the **pip list pycurl** command (Linux/Mac: **python -m pip list pycurl** or Windows: **py -2 –m pip list pycurl**)
    - On the right-side Python 3.6 window, check for a Python 3.6 installation of PycURL: the **pip list pycurl** command (Linux/Mac: **python3 -m pip list pycurl** or Windows: **py -3 -m pip list pycurl**)
3.  Only in the left-side Python 2.7 window, import PycURL: use the command **pip install pycurl** command (Linux/Mac: **python -m pip install pycurl** or Windows: **py -2 -m pip install pycurl**).
4.  As a proof that the PycURL package was installed for Python 2.7 only, repeat step 2, which should now show PycURL details in the left-side Python 2.7 window, and still nothing in the right-side Python 3.x window.
5.  As another proof try to import the new PycURL module, as follows:

    - Start a new interactive Python interpreter session in each window: Python 2.7 on the left, Python 3.6 on the right.
    - From both windows, try to import the PycURL module using the **import pycurl** statement from the interpreter. It should work for Python 2.7, and fail for Python 3.x
