# Summary and More Practice

This DevNet Learning Lab focuses on two Python tools: PIP and virtual environments. Other DevNet Learning Labs will reference and use these tools, often assuming you know the basics, or telling you just enough to get on with the main point of the lab.

If you want a little more practice with the topics in this lab, for PIP, note that you will likely see the PIP tool, and **pip** command, here and there in different DevNet Learning Labs. For virtual environments, here is one lab that can give you a little more practice right away. So, if you want some more practice, check out this lab:

> [Introduction to YANG Data Modeling](https://learninglabs.cisco.com/lab/02-introducing-yang-data-modeling/step/1)

This lab states in its lab pre-requisites that you need PIP as well as a virtual environment, and then briefly works through the steps. Now that you have read more about each, you could work through that DevNet Learning Lab, practice, and learn a little more, as that lab uses a few additional features not mentioned here in this lab.

Also, the “Introduction to YANG Data Models” Learning Labs use the “[NETCONF/YANG and RESTCONF on IOS XE” DevNet Sandbox](https://devnetsandbox.cisco.com/RM/Diagram/Index/27d9747a-db48-4565-8d44-df318fce37ad?diagramType=Topology), one that you will likely use often when learning about NETCONF/YANG and Ansible. So, both these labs are useful not just for their content, but also to get used to using this Sandbox before you use it for free play from your home computer.
